where thevectors pi j areincorporatedinthefourthcolumnofthe homogenoustransformationmatrix Ti j, thematrix Tbase defines the robot base location, the matrices T , j n 1, tool j = describe theloca- tions ofthereferencepointsthatareobservedbythemeasure- ment system(see Fig. 2). Here,thematrixfunctionT (q,) robot i π describes themanipulatorgeometryanddependsonthecurrent valuesoftheactuatedcoordinates qi and theparameters π to be estimated.Takingintoaccountthatanyhomogeneoustransforma- tion matrix Ta b can besplitintotherotational Ra b and translational pa b components andpresentedas
In the present paper, a laser tracking system was employed for measuring the 3-D position with high accuracy of approximately 5 μm [7-9]. As a target of calibration, a 7-DOF articulated robot was employed. After the geometric parameters were calibrated, residual errors caused by non-geometric parameters were further reduced by using neural networks (abbreviated to NN hereinafter), which is the major originality of this study.
Several researches have used NN for robot calibration. For example, it was used for interpolating the relationship between joint angles and their errors due to joint compliance in [10]. Two joints liable to suffer from gravitational torques were dealt with, and the interpolated relationships were finally incorporated into the forward kinematic model. So the role of NN was supplemental for modeling non-geometric errors. In [11], the relationship between Cartesian coordinates and positioning errors arising there was interpolated using NN. Joint angles themselves in forward kinematic model, however, were not compensated, and experimental result was limited to relative (not absolute) measurement using a calibration block in a rather narrow space. Compared with their researches, in the proposed method in this study, the joint angles in the forward kinematic model are precisely compensated using NN so as that the robot accuracy would be fairly improved in a comparatively wide area in the robot work space.
To speed up the calibration process, selecting smaller number of measuring points is preferable, while maintaining the accuracy. It is reported that the sensitivities of parameters affecting on the accuracy are desired to be averaged, i.e., not varied widely, for achieving good accuracy [12, 13]. As the index of showing the extent how sensitivities are averaged, observability index (OI) was employed [12]. Under the limitation of point number, optimal spatial selection of measuring points achieving the largest OI was investigated using genetic algorithm (GA), which is also the major originality of this study.
Nominal values of DH parameters of the PA10 robot on the basis of its specification sheet are shown in Table I. The deviations between the calibrated values (see the next section) and the nominal ones are also shown in this table.
By using the nominal kinematic model, the joint angle r to realize Xr are calculated, i.e., the inverse kinematic is solved, which is expressed in the mathematical form as
then, the 3-D position of robot arm’s tip is measured as
Let the calibrated parameters be P , and the predicted position based on the calibrated model be X , then the forward kinematic model using them is expressed as
The P is obtained so that the sum of the errors between the measured positions X and the predicted positions X is minimized by using a nonlinear least square method.
The joint angles to realize the verification set were calculated based on the calibrated model, and they were positioned by a robot controller. Note that, this calculation of inverse kinematics is not solved analytically, so it should be numerically solved, since the adjacent joint axes in the calibrated model are no longer accurately parallel or perpendicular to each other.
